--Assignment 4: SQL Evaluation Prep
--Lucia Fuentes

--1. What is index; types of indices; pros and cons
a lookup table that helps users be able to do a quick lookup of the rows that they are trying to find. 
Types of indices: clustered, non-clustered, column store, filtered, hash, unique
pros: it is an easy lookup for searching for records, it speeds up the SELECT statement, makes the records 
have unique IDs.
cons: they take additional space because they are an additional column and they can be slow on INSERT,
UPDATE and DELETE (unless UPDATE if WHERE has an indeed field)

2. What's the difference between Primary key and Unique constraint?
Primary Key will by default create clusterd index, and unique key will create non-clustered index

3. Tell me about check constraint
the check constraint limits the value ranges that can be placed on a column. 
Only certain values are allowed on each column

4. Difference between temp table and table variable
-temp tables life scope is the end of the query in which they were created. Table variables' life scope 
is their batch. 
-temp tables are used when there are more than 100 rows in table and temp variables when it is less
-temp variables can be used in stored procedures or functions and temp tables cannot

5. Difference between WHERE and HAVING
WHERE cannot be used with aggregates and HAVING table can.

6. Difference between RANK() and DenseRank() — value gap
If there are two entries with the same value, rank will have them have the same index number and skip
a value for the next entry. Dense rank will not do this, it will count up the index as normal 

7. COUNT(*) vs. COUNT(colName)
COUNT(*) counts all of the columns whereas COUNT(ColName) only counts a specific column

8. What's the difference between left join and inner join? JOIN and Subquery, which one has a
better performance, why?
left join takes the values that are the same in both tables and the rest of the values from the left table. 
Inner join only takes the values that are the same in both tables. 
JOIN vs Subquery: Joins are faster because they are better optimized by the server but subqueries are easier to write.

9. What is correlated subquery
the inner query is dependent on the outer query. 

10. What is a CTE, why do we need CTE?
Common Table Expression. 
Specifies a temporary named result set
Improve readability and manageability of complex SQL Statements
- Similar to VIEWs and even more to Derived Tables
- Over time most of the CTEs will be used for this purpose
it is important because it can call itself to become a recursive CTE. 

11. What does SQL Profiler do?
it is an interface that creates, manages traces and analyzes and replays the trace results

12. What is SQL injection, how to avoid SQL injection?
when a hacker tries to get into the SQL program by injecting some code that gives them information
from the table or lets them delete or change the table. Avoid SQL injection by using stored procedures

13. Difference between SP and user defined function? When to use SP when to use function?
--usage: sp for DML statements, function for calculations
--how to call: sp called by its name, function will be called in SQL query
--output: sp may or maynot have output, but function must return some value
--SP can call function but function can not call sp

14. Criteria of Union and Union all? Difference between UNION and UNION ALL
They are both used to combine multiple results sets vertically
criteria: the number of columns and types must be the same and alias must be given in first SELECT statement
--DIFFERENCE
--1. UNION remove all duplicate records, but UNION ALL will not
--2. UNION sort the first column ascendingly, but UNION ALL will not
--3. UNION cannot be used in recursive cte, but UNION ALL can 

15. Steps you take to improve SQL Queries
simplify joins, use normalization in order to minimize redundancy

16. concurrency problem in transaction
this happens when two or more users are trying to access the same data or transaction. 
This can lead to inconsistent results or invalid behavior because both users are trying to
manipulate the data

17. what is deadlock, how to prevent
deadlocks happen when two processes want to access resources that are mutually being locked by 
each other. It can continue forever if it is never stopped. It can be prevented by accessing resources in the same
order, limiting usage of cursor, avoiding poorly optimized queries and designing more normalized databases.

18. what is normalization, 1NF - BCNF, benefits using normalization
normalization is organizing data to minimize redundancy (data duplicacy) and it ensures data consistency.
--first normal form: 
    --atomic values: One cell -> one value
    --cannot have repeating groups, such as different columns for employees
--second normal form: must obey first normal form + no partial dependency
    --partial dependency: combination of two columns to come up with a key to access other tables
--third normal form: meet requirement for second normal form + no trransitive dependency
    --transitive dependency: remove columns that could be calculated based on other columns
---BCNF: Boyce Codd Normal Form: stricter version of 3NF + functional dependency
    --functional dependency: 

19. what are the system defined databases?
master, model, msdb, tempdb

20. composite key
a key that is made up of 2 or more different columns to uniquely identify a row.

21. candidate key
a key that uniquely identifies a row, can be made up of 1 or more different columns

22. DDL vs. DML
--DML trigger: Run when we try to modify data like DELETE, INSERT
--DDL trigger: run when we try to implement ddl operations like CREAtE and ALERT

23. ACID property
properties that help ensure the database is good. 
atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability

24. table scan vs. index scan
table scans iterate throw every single row while index scan iterate through the specific
index items. 

25. Difference between Union and JOIN
JOIN combines data into new columns, UNION combines data into new rows of the same column
